README.md, before:

# Welcome to RabbitMQ client module 👋

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.0.18-blue.svg?cacheSeconds=2592000)

> Module to connect Bava's apps to RabbitMq Instance

## Install

```go
go get gitlab.com/bavatech/architecture/software/libs/go-modules/rabbitmq-client.git
```

## Usage

> To use this module needs to instantiate a publisher or a consumer...
> This module is based on the examples presented at www.rabbitmq.com

> The following standards are implemented:
>
> - [Tutorial Rabbit MQ Go - Work Queues](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-two-go.html)
> - [Tutorial Rabbit MQ Go - Routing](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-four-go.html)
> - [Tutorial Rabbit MQ Go - Remote procedure call (RPC)](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-six-go.html)

### Create a RabbitMQ connection

```go
var vhost = "vhost"

credential := rabbit_models.Credential{
  Host:     "host",
  User:     "user",
  Password: "password",
  Vhost:    &vhost //optional default User as vhost,
  Protocol: rabbit_models.AMQPS //optional default AMQPS
}

delay := 1 //time in seconds to try to reconnect when the connection is broken
client, err := rabbit_client.New(credential, delay)
```

### Simple queue publisher code

Create new publisher

```go
publisher, err := client.NewPublisher(
  &rabbit_models.QueueArgs{
    Name: "queue-name",
  },
  nil,
)
```

Sending message

```go
messageId := uuid.NewString()

type BodyMessage struct {
  Value string `json:"value"`
}

jsonBodyMessage := BodyMessage{
  Value: "value",
}

bodyMessage := rabbit_models.IncomingEventMessage{
  Source: constants.ApplicationName,
  Content: rabbit_models.Event{
    ID:         messageId,
    Object:     event,
    Properties: jsonBodyMessage,
  },
}

content, _ := json.Marshal(bodyMessage)
message := rabbit_models.PublishingMessage{
	Body: content,
}

queueName, _ := publisher.GetQueueName()

err := queue.SendMessage(
  "",        //exchange
  queueName, //routing key -> Queue name
  false,     //mandatory
  false,     //imediate
  message    //message interface
)
```

### Simple routing key publisher code

Create new publisher

```go
publisher, err := client.NewPublisher(
  nil,
  &rabbit_models.ExchangeArgs{
    Name : "exchange-name",
    Type : "direct",
    Durable : false,
    AutoDelete : false,
    Internal : false,
    NoWait : false,
  },
)
```

Sending message

```go
messageId := uuid.NewString()

bodyMessage := rabbit_models.IncomingEventMessage{
  Source: constants.ApplicationName,
  Content: rabbit_models.Event{
    ID:         messageId,
    Object:     event,
    Properties: jsonBodyMessage,
  },
}

content, _ := json.Marshal(bodyMessage)
message := rabbit_models.PublishingMessage{
	Body: content,
}

exchangeName, _ := publisher.GetExchangeName()

err := queue.SendMessage(
  exchangeName,
  routingKey,
  false,          //mandatory
  false,          //imediate
  message         //message interface
)
```

### Simple RPC queue consumer code

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(&rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{QueueName: "queue-name"})

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler: func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
  Timeout: 25, //25 seconds
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.ReadMessage(ctx, correlationID, event)
```

### Simple queue consumer code

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(&rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{QueueName:"queue-name"})

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler:   func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.SubscribeEvents(ctx, event, 10) // 10 threads
```

### Simple queue consumer code - using DLQ and TTL of 30 seconds and Redelivery true

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(
  &rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{
    QueueName: "queue-name",
    TimeToLive: 30000,
    DeadLetterName: "dlq-queue-name",
    Redelivery: true, // try again once
  }
)

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler:   func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.SubscribeEvents(ctx, event, 10) // 10 threads
```

### Simple routing key consumer code

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(
  &rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{
    RoutingKey: "routing-key", //chave para roteamento no exchange
    QueueName: "queue-name"
    ExchangeArgs: &rabbit_models.ExchangeArgs{
      Name : "exchange-name",
      Type : "direct",
      Durable : false,
      AutoDelete : false,
      Internal : false,
      NoWait : false,
    }
  }
)

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler:   func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.SubscribeEvents(ctx, event, 5) //5 threads
```

## Author

👤 **Eduardo Mello**

- Gitlab: [@eduardo.mello@bavabank.com](https://gitlab.com/eduardo.mello)

## Contributors

👤 **Vinícius Deuner**

- Gitlab: [@vinicius.deuner@bavabank.com](https://gitlab.com/vinicius.deuner)

## Show your support

Give a ⭐️ if this project helped you!

---

_This README was generated with ❤️ by [readme-md-generator](https://github.com/kefranabg/readme-md-generator)_

Commit message:

🐛 Changed to not require queue or exchange parameters when creating publisher
This way, its possible to send messages to queues without knowing all parameters declared by de existing queue
Also created function to reveal the amqpConnection to the clients package

README.md, after:

# Welcome to RabbitMQ client module 👋

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.0.19-blue.svg?cacheSeconds=2592000)

> Module to connect Bava's apps to RabbitMq Instance

## Install

```go
go get gitlab.com/bavatech/architecture/software/libs/go-modules/rabbitmq-client.git
```

## Usage

> To use this module needs to instantiate a publisher or a consumer...
> This module is based on the examples presented at www.rabbitmq.com

> The following standards are implemented:
>
> - [Tutorial Rabbit MQ Go - Work Queues](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-two-go.html)
> - [Tutorial Rabbit MQ Go - Routing](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-four-go.html)
> - [Tutorial Rabbit MQ Go - Remote procedure call (RPC)](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-six-go.html)

### Create a RabbitMQ connection

```go
var vhost = "vhost"

credential := rabbit_models.Credential{
  Host:     "host",
  User:     "user",
  Password: "password",
  Vhost:    &vhost //optional default User as vhost,
  Protocol: rabbit_models.AMQPS //optional default AMQPS
}

delay := 1 //time in seconds to try to reconnect when the connection is broken
client, err := rabbit_client.New(credential, delay)

// if needed, the connection for the ampq its shared by the function GetConnection
amqpConnection := client.GetConnection()
```

### Simple queue publisher code

Create new publisher

```go
publisher, err := client.NewPublisher(
  &rabbit_models.QueueArgs{
    Name: "queue-name",
  },
  nil,
)
```

Sending message

```go
messageId := uuid.NewString()

type BodyMessage struct {
  Value string `json:"value"`
}

jsonBodyMessage := BodyMessage{
  Value: "value",
}

bodyMessage := rabbit_models.IncomingEventMessage{
  Source: constants.ApplicationName,
  Content: rabbit_models.Event{
    ID:         messageId,
    Object:     event,
    Properties: jsonBodyMessage,
  },
}

content, _ := json.Marshal(bodyMessage)
message := rabbit_models.PublishingMessage{
	Body: content,
}

queueName, _ := publisher.GetQueueName()

err := queue.SendMessage(
  "",        //exchange
  queueName, //routing key -> Queue name
  false,     //mandatory
  false,     //imediate
  message    //message interface
)
```

### Simple routing key publisher code

Create new publisher

```go
publisher, err := client.NewPublisher(
  nil,
  &rabbit_models.ExchangeArgs{
    Name : "exchange-name",
    Type : "direct",
    Durable : false,
    AutoDelete : false,
    Internal : false,
    NoWait : false,
  },
)
```

Sending message

```go
messageId := uuid.NewString()

bodyMessage := rabbit_models.IncomingEventMessage{
  Source: constants.ApplicationName,
  Content: rabbit_models.Event{
    ID:         messageId,
    Object:     event,
    Properties: jsonBodyMessage,
  },
}

content, _ := json.Marshal(bodyMessage)
message := rabbit_models.PublishingMessage{
	Body: content,
}

exchangeName, _ := publisher.GetExchangeName()

err := queue.SendMessage(
  exchangeName,
  routingKey,
  false,          //mandatory
  false,          //imediate
  message         //message interface
)
```

### Simple RPC queue consumer code

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(&rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{QueueName: "queue-name"})

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler: func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
  Timeout: 25, //25 seconds
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.ReadMessage(ctx, correlationID, event)
```

### Simple queue consumer code

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(&rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{QueueName:"queue-name"})

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler:   func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.SubscribeEvents(ctx, event, 10) // 10 threads
```

### Simple queue consumer code - using DLQ and TTL of 30 seconds and Redelivery true

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(
  &rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{
    QueueName: "queue-name",
    TimeToLive: 30000,
    DeadLetterName: "dlq-queue-name",
    Redelivery: true, // try again once
  }
)

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler:   func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.SubscribeEvents(ctx, event, 10) // 10 threads
```

### Simple routing key consumer code

```go
consumer, err := client.NewConsumer(
  &rabbit_models.ConsumerArgs{
    RoutingKey: "routing-key", //chave para roteamento no exchange
    QueueName: "queue-name"
    ExchangeArgs: &rabbit_models.ExchangeArgs{
      Name : "exchange-name",
      Type : "direct",
      Durable : false,
      AutoDelete : false,
      Internal : false,
      NoWait : false,
    }
  }
)

event := rabbit_models.ConsumerEvent{
  Handler:   func(message model.IncomingEventMessage) bool,
}
ctx := context.Background()
err = consumer.SubscribeEvents(ctx, event, 5) //5 threads
```

## Author

👤 **Eduardo Mello**

- Gitlab: [@eduardo.mello@bavabank.com](https://gitlab.com/eduardo.mello)

## Contributors

👤 **Vinícius Deuner**

- Gitlab: [@vinicius.deuner@bavabank.com](https://gitlab.com/vinicius.deuner)

## Show your support

Give a ⭐️ if this project helped you!

---

_This README was generated with ❤️ by [readme-md-generator](https://github.com/kefranabg/readme-md-generator)_
